the UN Agency for Palestinian refugees
says Israel will no longer allow their
food convoys from entering Northern Gaza
where people are dying of hunger
director General Philipe lazarini
released a statement on the social media
platform X stating that the Israeli
authorities have informed the UN that
they will no longer approve any unua
food convoys to the north of Gaza unua
has called the decision outrageous and
says Israel is making it intentional to
obstruct life-saving assistance during a
man-made
famine meanwhile in a statement the
director general of the World Health
Organization says blocking unra from
delivering food is in fact a nine
starving people the ability to survive
this decision must be urgently reversed
all efforts to deliver food should not
only be permitted but there should be an
immediate acceleration of food
deliveries let's speak now to Sam Rose
who's a director of planning at un joins
us live from Aman so this order by
Israel to not allow any un convoys
through to give Aid to uh potentially
starving people what are the
implications of
this the implications are dramatic uh
coming after five and a half months of a
of a Relentless War the uh an
independent Authority warned last week
of of imminent famine people are already
dying of starvation up in up in the
north and this is essentially a death
sentence on many of of those people uh
I'm here in Rafa not in am man and the
situation the bombings are Relentless
everywhere but but the situation
conditions particularly harsh in the
northern Gaza Street where we estimate
there are about
250,000 people who've been trapped there
for about five and a half months unra is
the by far the largest Aid organization
inside Gaza so blocking unra from
delivering up there as I say just
worsens the conditions and is a
deliberate obstruction as my B said the
commissioner general of un a deliberate
obstruction of life- saving assistance
uh for a population that is already
facing famine and starvation so simp
simply more people will die of course
you you have had incredibly limited
access anyway so I guess this is Israel
doubling down on a policy already in
place
right a policy already in place to
restrict access to humanitarian access
to the north but we have now been
informed explicitly that unro missions
to the north we had three planned this
week I myself was due to be on one this
morning we've been told explicitly now
uh that those missions will not be
coordinated so that means less Aid
trucks fewer Aid trucks to the starving
people of Northern Gaza the gravity of
the situation is such that the entire
Aid Community has to work together to
get as much Aid into Northern Gaza as
possible and taking unra away from that
you're taking the largest actor away
from that equation so you starve unra
you starve Gaza so we have a situation
where we have huge vast quantities of
Aid just sitting there and it's really a
matter of mere kilometers away from
thousands of starving
people absolutely there are problems on
the border with Egypt there are hundreds
of trucks that are stuck there but
literally those trucks are are
kilometers away on the other side of the
border the Eastern side of the Border we
have supermarkets we have hydroponic
Farms we have all the food all the
nutrients all the minerals all the
vitamins that we need to put a stop to
this when you say people are essentially
dying how close do you understand people
there are to reaching starvation to
actually
dying now people people are already
dying of starvation we've I can't
remember the exact figures but the
numbers in the tens in the 20s this
situation is already extremely serious
it's very very catastrophic reducing the
amount of Aid that is getting into the
north will just make this situation far
far
worse and what has to happen here now do
you
think what has to happen is that there
has to be uh pressure put on Israel to
reverse this decision there has to be an
immediate and a sustained increase in
access to Northern Gaza to allow the
humanitarian community incl including
unra this isn't about unra but unra
simply is by far the largest
humanitarian organization inside Gaza
the entire Aid Community working
together to get as much Aid into
Northern Gaza as quickly as possible if
we do this we can stop this but if we
don't do it we've been warning for
months what would happen we're now
starting to see it happen has Israel
given any reason for its decision and
tell us a little bit about what the
process of approval
is uh we are not aware of any reason for
that decision we were we were informed
three nights on the Run uh that that our
mission to the north would not be
approved for operational considerations
we don't get much more than that but
essentially every mission that the
humanitarian Community inside Gaza plans
for the north has to be communicated has
to be coordinated has to be approved by
the Israeli authorities to a minute
level of of detail
uh that happens typically about 24 hours
before the missions are due to to happen
and we get informed a couple of hours
before whether or not it's going to go
ahead so the trucks were ready the
materials were ready I myself was ready
our drivers were ready and we were stuck
down are you getting any indication that
that any pressure from the United States
is is being put on Israel to try and
enforce them to allow for more Aid
in we are calling on all member states
that have influence on Israel to put
that pressure on they are the entities
that can influence this the United
Nations Secretary General was in Rafa
yesterday he passed the same message on
as of now we're not seeing it having any
effect but it's AB absolutely urgent and
critical it couldn't be more critical
that this decision be reversed indeed
all right Sam Rose we're going to leave
it there Sam Rose the director of
planning atra joining us from Rafa thank
you